Docs: Refresh Azure AD SSO Guide (#29012)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/access-controls/sso/azuread.mdx

---
title: Teleport Authentication with Azure Active Directory (AD)

> description: How to configure Teleport access with Active Directory (AD) on Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to configure Teleport access with Azure Active Directory.
```

There are several forms of "Active Directory on Azure" - Azure AD is only one of them. I think we should be specific here.

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](../../../img/azuread/azuread-6-editbasicsaml.png)

7. For **Entity ID** and **Reply URL** enter the following, assigning <Var
   name="mytenant.teleport.sh:443" /> to the host and HTTPS port of your
   Teleport Proxy Service (or Teleport Team/Enterprise Cloud tenant):

   ```code
   https://<Var name="mytenant.teleport.sh:443" />/v1/webapi/saml/acs/ad
   ```

   ![Put in Entity ID and Reply URL](../../../img/azuread/azuread-7-entityandreplyurl.png)

   Click **Save** before proceeding to the next step.

> 8. Edit **Attributes & Claims**

Author: I thought about doing that as well, but then we'd also have to bring up the section/level-ness of the rest of the section and basically restructure the guide. FWIW This is all one small section of a rather complicated process overall.

> 8. Edit **Attributes & Claims**

Author: Turns out I had to make this change anyway, as the linter didn't like nested bullets and I'd rather reformat the page than deal with that code base.

   - Click on **Unique User Identifier (Name ID)** under **Required claim**.
   - Change the "name identifier format" to **Default**. Make sure the source
     attribute is `user.userprincipalname`.

     ![Confirm Name Identifier](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8a-nameidentifier.png)

   - Add a group claim to make user security groups available to the connector:

     ![Put in Security group claim](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8b-groupclaim.png)

>    - Add a claim that transforms an Azure AD username in order to pass it to

Author: How about:

```suggestion
   - Add a claim that transforms the format of the Azure AD username to lower case, in order to pass it to
```

      - Set the Transformation value to "Extract()"
      - Set the Attribute name to `user.userprincipalname`.
      - Set the Value to `ToLowercase()`.

     ![Add a transformed username](../../../img/azuread/azuread-8c-usernameclaim.png)

9. In **SAML Certificates** section, copy the **App Federation
   Metadata URL** link and save it for the next step:

   ![Download Federation Metadata XML](../../../img/azuread/azuread-9-fedmeatadataxml.png)

## Create a SAML Connector

Now, create a SAML connector resource using `tctl`.

```code
$ tctl sso configure saml --preset ad \
--entity-descriptor https://login.microsoftonline.com/ff882432.../federationmetadata/2007-06/federationmetadata.xml\?appid\=b8d06e01... \
--attributes-to-roles http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups,41c94563...,dev \
--attributes-to-roles http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups,8adac502...,access > azure-connector.yaml
```

In the example above:

- `--entity-descriptor` is give the app federation metadata URL saved in the
  previous step.
- Each `--attributes-to-roles` is give the name of the schema definition for

>   groups, the UUID of an AD group, and the Teleport role members of that group

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  groups, the UUID of an AD group, and the Teleport role that members of the group
```

>   will be assigned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  will be assigned to.
```

Author: Gonna push back on this on a bit. If it were a "group", then the user would be assigned "to" it. But a role, that is something that is assigned _to_ the user.

> The file `azure-connector.yaml` should now resemble:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The file `azure-connector.yaml` should now resemble the following:
```

```yaml
kind: saml
metadata:
  name: ad
spec:
  acs: https://mytenant.teleport.sh/v1/webapi/saml/acs/ad
  attributes_to_roles:
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - dev
    value: 41c94563...
  - name: http://schemas.microsoft.com/ws/2008/06/identity/claims/groups
    roles:
    - access
    value: 8adac502...
  audience: https://mytenant.teleport.sh/v1/webapi/saml/acs/ad
  cert: ""
  display: Microsoft
  entity_descriptor: ""
  entity_descriptor_url: https://login.microsoftonline.com/ff882432.../federationmetadata/2007-06/federationmetadata.xml?appid=b8d06e01...
  issuer: ""
  service_provider_issuer: https://mytenant.teleport.sh/v1/webapi/saml/acs/ad
  sso: ""
version: v2

```

Create the connector using `tctl`:

```code
$ tctl create -f azure-connector.yaml
```

With the connector in place on the cluster, you can test it with `tctl`:

```code
$ cat azure-connector.yaml | tctl sso test
```

> Your browser should open and log you in to the Teleport cluster through your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your browser should open and log you in to the Teleport cluster using your
```

Azure AD credentials. If there are any problems, the CLI output will help you
debug the connector configuration.

## Create a new Teleport role

Create a Teleport role resource that will use external username data from the
Azure AD connector to determine which Linux logins to allow on a host.

Users with the following `dev` role are only allowed to log in to nodes with
the `access: relaxed` Teleport label. They can log in as either `ubuntu` or a

> username that arrives via the Azure AD connector. Users with this role cannot

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
username that is passed in from the Azure AD connector. Users with this role can't
```
"arrives" sounds a bit odd to me and "via" is more ambiguous (multiple possible meanings) than choosing a common English word. I prefer the conversational tone of contractions, but maybe you wanted to emphasize this point (you CANNOT do X).

### Set up Teleport token encryption

> Start with generating a public/private key and a certificate. You will set up

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest something like this (except with the real information rather than my fiction)...

Token encryption requires a public/private key and a certification. The public key and certificate are used by Azure AD to authenticate users with the private key held by the Teleport client. 

To set up Teleport token encryption:

1. Generate a public/private key pair and a certificate by running the following command:

Author: This is existing content that only shows as changed because I formatted it. Honestly, I didn't do this as part of my testing so I can't fill in the "real information rather than my fiction" part of this suggestion.

the public certificate with Azure AD and the private key with Teleport.

```code
$ openssl req -nodes -new -x509 -keyout server.key -out server.cer
```

> 

Reviewer 2: It feels like something is missing here. What if I'm not modifying an existing connector?
"You will notice that Teleport has generated a `signing_key_pair`. This key pair
is used to sign responses."
Where am I noticing this? in the YAML file I generated if I was modifying an existing connector?

Author: (FYI It took me a minute to realize what lines you were referring to)

Same as above, I'm not an SME on this section to answer your questions.

If you encounter a "Failed to process SAML callback" error, take a look at the audit log.

```text

> Special characters are not allowed in resource names, please use name composed only from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Special characters are not allowed in resource names. Use a name composed only from
```

> characters, hyphens and dots: /web/users/ops_example.com#EXT#@opsexample.onmicrosoft.com/params

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alphanumeric characters, hyphens, and dots: /web/users/ops_example.com#EXT#@opsexample.onmicrosoft.com/params
```
